Add gateway implementation section (#153)
SW709E19/Report: report/ChapterImplementation/Gateway.tex

\section{Gateway}\label{sec:gateway}
This section describes the implementation of the gateway that is responsible of sending samples from sensor devices to IoT Core and configuration updates from IoT Core to sensor devices.

\subsection{Hardware}\label{subsec:gateway-hardware}

> The physical part of the gateway was implemented using a Raspberry Pi 3 Model B\+ as shown in \autoref{fig:raspberry-pi}. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The physical part of the gateway was implemented using a Raspberry Pi 3 Model B+ as shown in \autoref{fig:raspberry-pi}. 
```

The reason for choosing this device was that it was available and had the features needed to implement the gateway. 
It supports creating a Wi-Fi access point which sensor devices can connect to. 
It is also able to run a Linux operating system which makes it easy to install, update, and run multiple programs concurrently. 

\begin{figure}[H]
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{ChapterImplementation/images/raspberry-pi.jpg}

> 	\caption{Raspberry Pi 3 Model B\+ \cite{RaspberryPi3}.}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	\caption{Raspberry Pi 3 Model B+ \cite{RaspberryPi3}.}
```

	\label{fig:raspberry-pi}
\end{figure}

\subsection{Software}\label{subsec:gateway-software}

> The gateway consists of two software components as shown in \autoref{fig:gateway-diagram}. 

Reviewer: Jeg synes at det er bedre flow hvis det er i én sætning, men hvis du er uenig så bare afvis :) 

```suggestion
The gateway consists of two software components as shown in \autoref{fig:gateway-diagram}: the MQTT broker which enables publish/subscribe communication between sensor devices and gateway, and the bridge component which connects the MQTT broker with IoT Core.
```

> The MQTT broker which enables publish/subscribe communication between sensor devices and gateway. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The bridge component which connects the MQTT broker with IoT Core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

\begin{figure}[H]
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=1\textwidth]{ChapterImplementation/images/gateway-components.pdf}

> 	\caption{Component diagram with dependencies between sensor device, gateway components, and IoT Core.}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	\caption{Component diagram with dependencies between sensor devices, gateway components, and IoT Core.}
```

	\label{fig:gateway-diagram}
\end{figure}

\subsubsection{MQTT Broker}\label{sec:gateway-broker}

> The MQTT broker is implemented using Eclipse Mosquitto. Mosquitto is described as: \textit{“[...] an open source (EPL/EDL licensed) message broker that implements the MQTT protocol versions 5.0, 3.1.1 and 3.1.”} \cite{Mosquitto}. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The MQTT broker is implemented using Eclipse Mosquitto.
Mosquitto is described as: \textit{“[...] an open source (EPL/EDL licensed) message broker that implements the MQTT protocol versions 5.0, 3.1.1 and 3.1.”} \cite{Mosquitto}. 
```

In this project we use MQTT protocol version 3.1.1 at the gateway to enable compatibility with the client libraries used on the sensor device and the bridge. 

> The gateway is configured to automatically run Mosquitto as a service when it starts. This makes the gateway easier to install because it does not require any manual instantiation of the MQTT broker. Sensor devices can then connect to the broker using the IP address of the gateway and the MQTT port 1883. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The gateway is configured to automatically run Mosquitto as a service when it starts.
This makes the gateway easier to install because it does not require any manual instantiation of the MQTT broker.
Sensor devices can then connect to the broker using the IP address of the gateway and the MQTT port 1883. 
```

\subsubsection{Bridge}\label{sec:gateway-bridge}

> The bridge runs two MQTT clients. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bridge runs two MQTT clients: a client connected to the MQTT broker and another client connected to IoT Core’s MQTT endpoint.
```

> A client connected to the MQTT broker and another client connected to IoT Core’s MQTT endpoint. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

In this way it is possible to forward message between these two MQTT endpoints. 
In the prototype this was implemented as part of the MQTT broker by configuring Mosquitto’s built-in bridge. 

> But as mentioned in \autoref{cha:prototype} this had some limitations. 

Reviewer: Kan vi referere til den specifikke subsection i stedet?

Therefore, a separate bridge component was developed. 
The bridge was developed in Python using the Eclipse Paho MQTT Python client library. 
The bridge forwards three types of messages: Configuration updates, device states, and samples.

\subsubsection{Configuration Updates and State}\label{subsec:bridge-config}

> Configuration updates are used to set the configuration state of a given device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration updates are used to set the configuration state of a given sensor device.
```

Configuration updates are sent to the device via the topic: /devices/\{device-id\}/config.
Configuration states are sent from the device via topic: /devices/\{device-id\}/state.
These topics are based on Google IoT Core's MQTT endpoint \cite{IoTCoreAttach}.

> \autoref{fig:bridge-config} shows the sequence of message sent between the different components in order to initialise the sensor device with the latest configuration from IoT Core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\autoref{fig:bridge-config} shows the sequence of messages sent between the different components in order to initialise the sensor device with the latest configuration from IoT Core.
```

\begin{figure}[H]
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=1\textwidth]{ChapterImplementation/images/bridge-config.pdf}
	\caption{UML sequence diagram of messages after gateway and sensor device were just powered on.}
	\label{fig:bridge-config}
\end{figure}

> After the gateway is powered then the bridge will connect to the MQTT Broker and subscribe to device messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the gateway is powered the bridge connects to the MQTT Broker and subscribes to device messages.
```

> When the sensor device is powered on or wakes up after deep sleep then it will subscribe to the configuration topic and sent its current configuration state to the gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the sensor device is powered on or wakes up after deep sleep it will subscribe to the configuration topic and sent its current configuration state to the gateway.
```

The bridge then receives the configuration and compares it with the latest configuration received from IoT Core for the corresponding device.
If the bridge received a message from a device it has not yet been attached then it will attach the device and subscribe to its configuration from IoT Core.

> First time the bridge subscribes to device configuration then IoT Core will send the latest configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the bridge subscribes to a new device's configuration IoT Core will send its latest configuration.
```

This ensures that the gateway will get the latest configuration even though it was not online when the configuration was updated.

> After the gateway receives the device configuration then it will wait until the next time the device wakes up and sends its configuration state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the gateway receives the device configuration it will wait until the next time the device wakes up and sends its configuration state.
```

\subsubsection{Samples}\label{sec:bridge-sample}
After the sensor device has been configured with a $sample rate \neq 0$ then it will send a sample of measurements in the end of each duty cycle.
Samples are sent via the topic /devices/\{device-id\}/events as shown in \autoref{fig:bridge-sample}.

\begin{figure}[H]
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=1\textwidth]{ChapterImplementation/images/bridge-sample.pdf}
	\caption{UML sequence diagram of messages after device has been configured until it has sent its first sample.}
	\label{fig:bridge-sample}
\end{figure}

Notice in \autoref{fig:bridge-sample} that the configuration state is also forwarded to IoT Core.

> In this way it is possible to minitor which configuration state each device is running with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this way it is possible to monitor which configuration state each device is running with.
```
